In this video,
we'll cover assertions for throws and timeout.
We can make use of the assertion, assertThrows.
This assert will check to see that an executable
throws an exception of a specified type.
Here's the code that we want to test.
In our DemoUtils class, we have this method,
throwException, you pass in an integer,
and if a is less than zero, it'll throw an exception.
So basically, we want to verify that this method
throws an exception for any value less than zero;
basically, any negative number.
We can move into our test class here, DemoUtilsTest.
We'll add this new test method,
testThrowsAndDoesNotThrow.
We have this method, called here assertThrows,
we give the Exception.class, that's what we're checking for,
and then we give the actual executable our code.
So instead of just a method by itself,
we have to provide it as a Lambda expression.
So we're basically kind of wrapping our method
inside of curly braces,
using the arrows here as a Lambda expression.
And we'll make a call here,
demoUtils.throwException -1,
so for any negative value,
that method should throw an exception.
And then, we can do a similar thing here
for assertDoesNotThrow.
So again, we provide this Lambda expression,
and then we have demoUtils.throwException,
we pass in the number nine.
So that's a positive value,
it's greater than or equal to zero,
and so here, this should not throw an exception.
And when we run this test,
then it'll pass with flying colors, all green.
Good job!
Let's take a look at another assertion here for timeouts.
Here, we have assertTimeoutPreemptively.
It'll assert that the executable completes
before a given timeout is exceeded.
Let's look at the code that we want to test.
So in our DemoUtils class,
we have this method called checkTimeout.
Internally, in this method,
we're going to sleep for two seconds.
Basically, we want to check to make sure
this method doesn't oversleep. (chuckles)
I tend to oversleep sometimes;
I think I need a unit test for myself.
All right, back to the coding here, having too much fun.
Moving back to our test class,
we'll have this test method here called testTimeout.
And then, I have assertTimeoutPreemtively,
I give the timeout duration in seconds, so three seconds,
I provide the Lambda expression demoUtils.checkTimeout,
and then our message here,
the "method should execute in three seconds."
And then, once we run this unit test,
then it passes with flying colors, all green.
This looks really good; I like it.
All right, let's go ahead
and swing over into the next video,
and let's start writing some code!